--- 
tags: []

date: 2007-01-21 17:31:53 +00:00
author_login: maxmanders
status: publish
author_url: http://maxmanders.co.uk
author: maxmanders
wordpress_id: 2
published: true
layout: page
categories: 
- General
title: About
comments: []

author_email: max@maxmanders.co.uk
---
I live and work in <a title="Edinburgh on Wikipedia" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edinburgh">Edinburgh</a>, Scotland with my wife Jo and our two cats, Ziggy and Maggie. I work as a web developer, and at present work for <a href="http://www.maglabs.net">Maglabs</a> building scalable web applications, with a focus on Digital Asset Management. My interests, both professionally and otherwise are varied, and I hope that this site will eventually reflect that. I have been using and working with the web for about 8 years. I started learning HTML back in 1995 so that I could have my own little piece of "cyberspace".

This developed over the years into a passion for the internet, and what it can offer. I started to learn JavaScript, and then PHP. As I learnt more about accessibility and usability I began to develop my CSS skills; creating tableless layouts and using CSS for all presentation aspects, leaving the markup semantic and clean.

I continued to learn and here I am today. I use (X)HTML and CSS to markup and design my sites; JavaScript to control client-side behaviour; and PHP as a server-side language combined with MySQL as my database of choice. I often dabble with Java, PL/SQL and various other technologies as jobs require.

When I'm not designing or developing websites, I enjoy writing and talking about them. I also enjoy playing the guitar and <a title="Trombone on Wikipedia" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trombones">trombone</a>. I've recently taken up photography to some extent. I try to keep my digital camera with me when I'm out and about so I can snap anything that catches my eye... a work in progress so far! I'm no gourmet chef, but I enjoy cooking and am reasonably capable around the kitchen.

I keep a <a href="/media/cv-2012-06.pdf">copy of my CV </a> here as well.
