--- 
date: 2012-12-31 20:37
layout: post
title: 2013 - A Year In Review
author: Max Manders
---
It's the end of another year and a new one is just around the corner, so it's time to post
my personal review of 2012.  It's been a fun and exciting year and I'm looking forward to
that continuing in to 2013.<!--more-->

I helped organise the inaugural [Whisky Web](http://whiskyweb.co.uk) conference, it was a
roaring success by all accounts, and we're on track to running Whisky Web again in April
of 2013.  It was a fun, exciting, stressful and educational experience.  I met lots of new
people, learnt some lessons about keeping on top of stress while working with others, but
most importantly of all, I had a great time!

The end of May saw my and Joanne's first wedding anniversary!  The first year of married
life has been great, and I'm looking forward to the many years ahead of us.  We spent our
anniversary in Dublin; a very beautiful city, made more so with the weather being on our
side.  I'd definitely like to go back there one day and spend some more time
people-watching in O'Neill's!

I was sad to leave [Maglabs](http://www.maglabs.net), but the time was right to broaden my
horizons, and I wish Maglabs and my colleagues all the very best of success and happiness
in the future.  But closing that door allowed me to step through an exciting new door with
[Cloudreach](http://www.cloudreach.co.uk), where I'm working on all things _devops_.  I'm
working with a great bunch of people, using [Google
Apps](http://www.google.com/apps/index1.html) and [Amazon Web
Services](http://aws.amazon.com), ramping up on Ruby and Rails and getting my hands dirty
with server monitoring and analysis.  I'll always have a soft spot for PHP, but I'll be
leaving it behind for the foreseeable future.

It's also been my great honour to accept an invitation from my alma mater, [Heriot-Watt
University](http://www.hw.ac.uk), to give a tech evangelist presentation to their
final-year students in the first quarter of 2013.

Although there have been a lot of highs this year, it's not all been plain sailing.
However, life requires the balance of the highs and lows, the rough and the smooth.

It is with a heavy heart that I say goodbye and rest in peace to my paternal grandfather,
who passed away peacefully, shortly before Christmas; you will be sorely missed by many.

I've also fallen off the no-nicotine wagon this year; I've stopped before, so I will
again.  I managed to find a brass band to join in Edinburgh, but unfortunately Friday
nights are still too precious for me at the moment to commit to the trombone so I didn't
stick at it.  Maybe that'll change next year.  I've not managed as many appearances this
year to the various Edinburgh meetups is I'd hoped.  Again, hopefully that'll change next
year.

Looking toward the year ahead, I have another conference to help run; a chance to
encourage and inspire students as the prepare to start their careers; an anniversary in
Paris(!); and who knows what else.  Happy New Year everyone!
