--- 
date: 2012-09-07 22:24
layout: post
title: Can't We All Just Get Along?
author: Max Manders
categories:
- development
---
This post may prove to be controversial; it shouldn't!  Can't we all just get along?
Seriously.  I know we as developers are all different, and have our own personal views on
what makes us tick.  Surely though, we can all agree on having one thing in common: we
thrive on solving interesting and challenging problems, and solving them in an elegant and
clean fashion.<!--more-->

New stable versions of arguably two of the most popular PHP frameworks were released in
the last few days: Zend Framework 2 and Symfony 2.1.  Both releases involved tremendous
time and effort, and all those involved in all aspects of these milestone releases deserve
congratulations.  [Fabien Potencier](http://fabien.potencier.org/) published a [blog
post](http://fabien.potencier.org/article/65/why-symfony) today where he listed what he
felt were the unique selling points of Symfony 2.1 that might justify its use over other
similar frameworks.

This post has elicited both positive and negative responses.  The most interesting of
which, in my opinion was from Alexander Makarov who pointed out that the majority of
Fabien's '...arguments are valid for ZF2 as well...'.  Fabien's response was that
'...\[he\] tried to base \[his\] list on facts, not assumptions...'.  This discussion
appears to have prompted [Chris Acky](http://chrisacky.posterous.com/) to post [a
response](http://chrisacky.posterous.com/why-zend-framework) that highlights Alexander's
point by listing Fabien's original points, replacing Symfony with Zend Framework.

Between the discussions on these two blog posts, and tweets with the same sentiment, I'm
starting to get frustrated with the so-called *community* at large.  Aren't we all working
to achieve the same high-level goals?  I'd really like it if we stopped infighting and
flaming each other and other's projects and instead realised that each and every open
source project has its own merits and weaknesses.  It's up to us to recognise these in the
context of what we are working on and choose whichever is suitable for the task,
regardless of whether it's the new hotness.

If you're an able polyglot developer and have the time to investigate a variety of
technologies in order to determine which will best help solve a particular problem, then
great!  If you're only comfortable with one language, and don't feel like venturing out of
your comfort zone, that's fine too.  Either way, let's just play to our strengths, expand
our horizons and stop fighting each other.  I'd like to think we could all achieve a lot
more with this attitude.
