--- 
date: 2014-01-04
layout: post
title: 2013 A Year In Review
author: Max Manders
categories:
- general
---
Happy New Year everyone! It's that time of the year again where I look back and reflect on
the year gone by.  The first thing that occurs to me is how empty my blog has been this
year!  Definitely something I plan to address in 2014.<!--more-->

In general, 2013 was *ok*, *fine*.  I don't mean that in a negative way, but it certainly
wasn't earth shatteringly spectacular.  There were some high points and low points.

I continue to enjoy my job and find it fulfilling and interesting.
[Cloudreach](http://www.cloudreach.co.uk) continues to grow from strength to strength: we
now have offices in London, Edinburgh and Amsterdam; and have had a very healthy growth
both with respect to business and engineers.  I'm sure that this trend will continue in
2014 and I look forward to the exciting opportunities that this will no doubt present.
I'd like to write and speak more; continue to mentor colleagues and perhaps dabble in
screen casting with Screen Flow.

Some friends and I organised and ran another exciting, fun and successful conference with
[Whisky Web](http://www.whiskyweb.co.uk).  There'll be more information about Whisky Web
in a separate blog post both here, and on our main [website](http://www.whiskyweb.co.uk)
in due course.

I felt honoured to be invited back to Heriot-Watt University to give a talk under the
broad umbrella of 'technical evangelism' to some current undergraduates.  I spoke about
the work I do with Amazon Web Services, monitoring and the *DevOps* culture that's growing
arms and legs.  Following that, I was delighted to welcome one of those students, [Calum
Gilchrist](https://twitter.com/homelinen) to Cloudreach as a permanent part-time engineer
in the Cloudreach NOC.

I had a short break in the The Lake District with [Jo](https://twitter.com/mrsjmanders)
and four of our friends; three couples in a cottage in the arse-end of nowhere in six to
eight inches of snow and ice.  Despite the conditions, it was great fun, and I'm hoping we
can all do something similar this year.

I had a great time with my wife in Paris at the end of May for our second anniversary.  We
stayed in the heart of the city, a five minute walk from Notre Dame cathedral.  The
weather wasn't brilliant, but we enjoyed drinking good wine, eating good food and pretty
much just *people watching*.  We also popped in to the aptly named "Dernier bar avant la
fin du monde"; a homage to all things sci-fi!

And although it didn't quite make 2013, I'd be remiss if I didn't mention attending my
friend Sally's wedding to Graham on the 2nd January 2014 - congratulations!

