---
layout: post
title: "2014 - A Year In Review"
date: 2014-12-31 17:26:43 +0000
author: Max Manders
tags:
categories:
---
As 2014 draws to a close, it's time for my annual review.  As with last year, my blog's
been pretty empty this year, and as with last year, I'm going to try to write more in
2015!  2014 has been a pretty good year as these things go.  There were some ups and
downs, highs and lows, frustration and satisfaction.  But wouldn't life be boring if it
were all plain sailing?!<!--more-->

Sally and Graham's wedding kicked off the new year on 2nd January, and a lovely day it
was.  They've just seen in 2015 in New Zealand on their honeymoon - have an amazing time
guys!  Just shy of three weeks later, I hit the big three-oh; meh, you're as old as you
feel but I guess I'd better start acting my age!

2014 was certainly a big year for travelling, and February saw my first visit across the
Atlantic for a work visit to New York.  Jason and I spent four days on-site with a
customer in Jersey City.  It was cold and snowy, I was ill, but it was fantastic!  I
managed to take in some of the sights of Manhattan, but sadly the timing and weather meant
giving Central Park a miss.  I drank in some odd bars, and had amazing steak in a Japanese
run steak-house playing Spanish music - surreal!

In March I successfully interviewed for a promotion to *Cloud Leader* at Cloudreach; so
now I manage and look after the Operations Team with Shona and Jim!  I'm definitely
enjoying the new role, although I don't spend as much time as I used to at a shell writing
code and tinkering with APIs.  Hopefully I can get closer to the tech again in 2015, and
strike a better balance.

Jo and I spent our third wedding anniversary in York in May.  The weather could have been
better but we both had a great time exploring the old twisty-turny streets and city walls.

I was flattered to be invited back to Heriot-Watt University to contribute as part of the
degree programme steering board.  I had an opportunity to help shape future courses and
content to better reflect those skills and technologies that are used in industry and
life-after-University.  

I had a trip down to London to speak at the RBS Techstock event: an internal technology
conference for the various internal business units.  I gave a talk about DevOps and Amazon
Web Services.  Given that I was competing with the track-two talk from Gartner on future
technologies in the financial sector, I think I drew a decent crowd!

In October, Jo and I joined two other couples we know for a group holiday in Italy.  We
rented a villa for a week in San Martino In Freddana and spent seven days in scroching hot
sunshine relaxing and reading by the pool, eating amazing local food, and visiting Pisa,
Florence, Lucca, Fiano and Viareggio.  I cant remember the last time I felt so relaxed,
and blisteringly sunburnt!

I was very humbled to be asked to contribute to a new edition of 'Continuous Delivery and
DevOps: A Quickstart Guide' as a technical reviewer.  It's a nice feeling to be able to
give something back to the tech community by helping out in this way, and the book's been
published now - so I'm looking forward to getting my personal copy sent out from the
publishers soon!

In November, I spent five weeks away from home, the longest I've ever been away from Jo
and the cats.  It was a struggle at times, but I couldn't turn down an opportunity to go
to Las Vegas and Vancouver!  In recognition of my contributions at work this past year,
I joined some of the Cloudreach team in Las Vegas for the Amazon Web Services re:Invent
conference.  Unbelievable.  Vegas was something else, definitely glad I visited such a
bizarre and surreal city, but definitely not somewhere I think I'd return to for a holiday
unless it was part of a tour of America.  Seeing such an eclectic mix of locals and
tourists staring with glazed eyes at slot machines and blackjack tables was quite the
spectacle!  The conference itself was great fun, and I really enjoyed meeting, and getting
drunk with a great bunch of folk!  The sheer scale of the keynotes was mind-boggling!  And
the after party was amazing - an awesome DJ set followed by Skrillex!  A week later, and I
was off to Vancouver to spend four weeks with our brilliant North America Operations Team.

Having worked remotely with the Vancouver team since Shona, Alberto and Robin went over to
set things up in March, it was really great to finally meet the rest of the team in
person!  And working with the folks over there really made me feel proud of the hard work
everyone has put in to get the Vancouver office off the ground.  Downtown Vancouver and
Yaletown from the 24th floor of an apartment block is quite a spectacular view!
Unfortunately I didn't get a chance to use any holiday days while I was over there, but I
still made the most of the weekends to explore the sites.  Six hours wandering around
Stanley Park and the Vancouver Aquarium; hiking in Lynn Canyon and Deep Cove and taking a
wrong turn and ending up in East Hastings
- the homeless-heart of Vancouver.  Although a lovely city, it's a shame that about six
blocks of East Hasting seems to be where an eye-opening number of homeless people *live*.
I was also fortunate enough to give two guest lectures on DevOps and Amazon Web Services
at the British Columbia Institute of Technology.  All of the students were really engaging
and interested in what I had to share with them, and what Cloudreach do!

After a heart-stopping moment returning through US border control and having my newly
shaved head raise questions about my identity, I was glad to get back home to Jo, and
my friends and family.  A very welcome Christmas with Jo and her family in Jedburgh was
just the relaxation I needed.  And as I publish this, its a little over 90 minutes until
2015 gets underway!  So here's to 2015 and whatever surprises it has in store: I hope to
have opportunities to do some more travelling; turning 31 and celebrating our fourth
wedding anniversary; I'm looking forward to fresh challenges working with the team to make
Cloudreach Operations bigger and better.  And hopeful some other fun surprises too!

HAPPY NEW YEAR!
